Add document for model dependency management (#10807)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/model/dependencies.rst

Managing Dependencies in MLflow Model
=====================================

`MLflow Model <../models.html>`_ is a standard format that packages a machine learning model with its dependencies and other metadata.
Building a model with its dependencies allows for reproducibility and portability across a variety of platforms and tools.

When you create an MLflow model using the `MLflow Tracking APIs <../tracking.html>`_, for instance, :py:func:`mlflow.pytorch.log_model`,
MLflow automatically infers the required dependencies to your model flavor and records them as a part of Model metadata. Then when you
serve the model for prediction, MLflow automatically installs the dependencies to the environment. Thus, normally you don't need to
worry about managing dependencies in MLflow Model.

However, in some cases, you may need to add or modify some dependencies. This page provides a high-level description of how MLflow manages
dependencies and guidance for how to customize dependencies for your use case.

> .. contents:: Table of Contents

Author: note: Adding table of contents as the side bar doesn't show indexes at this level.

Reviewer: Good idea.

> Managing Dependencies in MLflow Model
> =====================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managing Dependencies in an MLflow Model
========================================
```

`MLflow Model <../models.html>`_ is a standard format that packages a machine learning model with its dependencies and other metadata.
Building a model with its dependencies allows for reproducibility and portability across a variety of platforms and tools.

When you create an MLflow model using the `MLflow Tracking APIs <../tracking.html>`_, for instance, :py:func:`mlflow.pytorch.log_model`,

> MLflow automatically infers the required dependencies to your model flavor and records them as a part of Model metadata. Then when you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow automatically infers the required dependencies for the model flavor you're using and records them as a part of Model metadata. Then, when you
```

> serve the model for prediction, MLflow automatically installs the dependencies to the environment. Thus, normally you don't need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
serve the model for prediction, MLflow automatically installs the dependencies to the inference environment. Thus, normally you don't need to
```

worry about managing dependencies in MLflow Model.

However, in some cases, you may need to add or modify some dependencies. This page provides a high-level description of how MLflow manages
dependencies and guidance for how to customize dependencies for your use case.

.. contents:: Table of Contents
  :local:
  :depth: 1

.. _how-mlflow-records-dependencies:

> How MLflow Model Records Dependencies
> -------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How MLflow Records Model Dependencies
--------------------------------------
```

MLflow Model is saved in a directory with the following structure:

::

    my_model/
    ├── MLmodel
    ├── model.pkl
    ├── conda.yaml
    ├── python_env.yaml
    └── requirements.txt

> Model dependencies are defined by the following files (For other files, please refer to :ref:`Storage Format <model-storage-format>`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Model dependencies are defined by the following files (For other files, please refer to the guidance provided in the section discussing :ref:`Storage Format <model-storage-format>`):
```

> * ``python_env.yaml`` - This file contains the information required to restore the model environment using virtualenv (1) python version (2) build tools like pip, setuptools, and wheel (3) pip requirements of the model (a reference to requirements.txt)

Reviewer: Are the numbers here to indicate positions in a diagram you'll be adding?

Author: nope just for listing (was a bullet points but just changed to make it use lesser space)

Reviewer: That's a cool feature that I didn't know existed! Neat!

* ``requirements.txt`` - Defines the set of pip dependencies required to run the model.

> * ``conda.yaml`` - Defines the conda environment required to run the model. This is used when you specify ``conda`` as environment manager for restoring the model environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``conda.yaml`` - Defines the conda environment required to run the model. This is used when you specify ``conda`` as the environment manager for restoring the model environment.
```

Please note that **it is not recommended to edit these files manually** to add or remove dependencies.
They are automatically generated by MLflow and any change you make manually will be overwritten when you save the model again.
Instead, you should use one of the recommended methods described in the following sections.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following shows an example of environment files generated by MLflow when logging a model with ``mlflow.sklearn.log_model``:

* ``python_env.yaml``

  .. code-block:: yaml

      python: 3.9.8
      build_dependencies:
      - pip==23.3.2
      - setuptools==69.0.3
      - wheel==0.42.0
      dependencies:
      - -r requirements.txt

* ``requirements.txt``

  .. code-block:: text

      mlflow==2.9.2
      scikit-learn==1.3.2
      cloudpickle==3.0.0

* ``conda.yaml``

  .. code-block:: yaml

      name: mlflow-env
      channels:
        - conda-forge
      dependencies:
      - python=3.9.8
      - pip
      - pip:
        - mlflow==2.9.2
        - scikit-learn==1.3.2
        - cloudpickle==3.0.0

> Adding Extra Dependencies to MLflow Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding Extra Dependencies to an MLflow Model
```

-----------------------------------------
MLflow detects dependencies required for the model flavor library, but your model may depend on other libraries e.g. data
preprocessing. In this case, you can add extra dependencies to the model by specifying the **extra_pip_requirements** param
when logging the model. For example,

.. code-block:: python

    import mlflow

    class CustomModel(mlflow.pyfunc.PythonModel):
        def predict(self, context, model_input):
            # your model depends on pandas
            import pandas as pd

            ...
            return prediction

    # Log the model
    with mlflow.start_run() as run:
        mlflow.pyfunc.log_model(
            python_model=CustomModel(),
            artifact_path="model",
            extra_pip_requirements=["pandas==2.0.3"],
        )

The extra dependencies will be added to ``requirements.txt`` as follows (and similarly to ``conda.yaml``):

.. code-block:: yaml

    mlflow==2.9.2
    cloudpickle==3.0.0
    pandas==2.0.3  # added

> Then MLflow will install Pandas 2.0.3 when serving the model for prediction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
In this case, MLflow will install Pandas 2.0.3 in addition to the inferred dependencies when serving the model for prediction.
```

.. note::

    Once you log the model with dependencies, it is advisable to test prediction in a sandbox environment using MLflow predict API,
    to avoid any dependency issues when deploying the model to production.
    Please refer to :ref:`Validating Environment for Prediction <validating-environment-for-prediction>` for more details.

Defining All Dependencies by Yourself
--------------------------------------

Alternatively, you can also define all dependencies from scratch rather than adding extra ones. To do so,
specify **pip_requirements** when logging the model. For example,

.. code-block:: python

    import mlflow

    # Log the model
    with mlflow.start_run() as run:
        mlflow.sklearn.log_model(
            sk_model=model,
            artifact_path="model",
            extra_pip_requirements=[
                "mlflow-skinny==2.9.2",
                "cloudpickle==2.5.8",
                "sklearn==1.3.1",
            ],
        )

The manually defined dependencies will override the default ones MLflow detects from the model flavor library:

.. code-block:: yaml

    mlflow-skinny==2.9.2
    cloudpickle==2.5.8
    sklearn==1.3.1

> .. note::

Reviewer: Let's add another warning here that manually declaring core dependencies for the model to function that are different from those that were used during training can be especially dangerous and prone to unexpected behavior.

>     Once you log the model with custom dependencies, it is advisable to test prediction in sandbox environment using MLflow predict API,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Once you log the model with custom dependencies, it is advisable to test prediction in sandbox environment using the MLflow predict API,
```

"using the MLflow predict API functionality, introduced in MLflow 2.10.0...." (just in case users of older versions try this great feature out and find that the API doesn't exist in their version of MLflow)

Author: Great idea! Should be also helpful for users on pre-installed environment like MLR.

    to avoid any dependency issues when deploying the model to production.
    Please refer to :ref:`Validating Environment for Prediction <validating-environment-for-prediction>` for more details.

Saving Extra Code with MLflow Model
-----------------------------------
MLflow also supports saving your custom Python code as dependencies to the model. This is particularly useful

> when you want to deploy your custom modules required for prediction with the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when you want to deploy your custom modules that are required for prediction with the model.
```

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: train.py

    import mlflow

    class MyModel(mlflow.pyfunc.PythonModel):
        def predict(self, context, model_input):
            from utils import my_func

            x = my_func(model_input)
            # .. your prediction logic
            return prediction

    # Log the model
    with mlflow.start_run() as run:
        mlflow.pyfunc.log_model(
            python_model=MyModel(),
            artifact_path="model",
            code_paths=["utils.py"],
        )

Then MLflow will save ``utils.py`` under ``code/`` directory in the model directory:

::

    model/
    ├── MLmodel
    ├── ...
    └── code/
        └── utils.py

When MLflow loads the model for serving, the ``code`` directory will be added to the system path so that you can use the module in your model
code like ``from utils import my_func``. You can also specify a directory path as ``code_path`` to save multiple files under the directory:

Caveats of ``code_path`` Option
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When using the ``code_path`` option, please be aware of the limitation that the specified file or directory **must be in the same directory as your model script**.

> If the specified file or direcotry is in a parent or child directory like ``my_project/src/utils.py``, model serving will fail with ``ModuleNotFoundError``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the specified file or directory is in a parent or child directory like ``my_project/src/utils.py``, model serving will fail with ``ModuleNotFoundError``.
```

> For example, let's say if you have the following file structure in your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's say that you have the following file structure in your project
```

::

    my_project/
    |── train.py
    └── src/
        └──  utils.py

Then the following model code does **not** work:

.. code-block:: python

    class MyModel(mlflow.pyfunc.PythonModel):
        def predict(self, context, model_input):
            from src.utils import my_func

            # .. your prediction logic
            return prediction

    with mlflow.start_run() as run:
        mlflow.pyfunc.log_model(
            python_model=MyModel(),
            artifact_path="model",
            code_paths=[
                "src/utils.py"
            ],  # the file will be saved at code/utils.py not code/src/utils.py
        )

    # => Model serving will fail with ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'src'

> This limitation is due to how MLflow saves and loads the specified files/directories. When it copies the specified files or directries in ``code/`` target,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This limitation is due to how MLflow saves and loads the specified files and directories. When it copies the specified files or directories in ``code/`` target,
```

> it does **not** preserve the relative path for them. For instance, in the above example, MLflow will copy ``utils.py`` to ``code/utils.py``, not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it does **not** preserve the relative paths that they were originally residing within. For instance, in the above example, MLflow will copy ``utils.py`` to ``code/utils.py``, not
```

``code/src/utils.py``. As a result, it has to be imported as ``from utils import my_func``, instead of ``from src.utils import my_func``.

> However, this may not be pleasant as the import path is different from the original training script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this may not be pleasant, as the import path is different from the original training script.
```

One workaround for this issue is to use the parent directory instead, which means doing ``code_path=["src"]`` in this example.
This way, MLflow will copy the entire ``src/`` directory under ``code/`` and your model code will be able to import ``src.utils``.

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a note for recommended file structures for dependent code inclusion? (we recommend including all dependent files in their own folder that is accessible from the main entry point of your training code, as a directory, that contains no other files or code structures that are not absolutely required for the proper functionality of your model) or something to that effect?

Author: Sure, I think what you mentioned is the recommended (or perhaps only viable) way for managing dependent code.

        def predict(self, context, model_input):
            from src.utils import my_func

            # .. your prediction logic
            return prediction

    with mlflow.start_run() as run:
        mlflow.pyfunc.log_model(
            python_model=model,
            artifact_path="model",
            code_paths=["src"],  # the whole /src directory will be saved at code/src
        )

    # => This will work

.. warning::

    By the same reason, ``code_path`` option doesn't handle the relative import like ``code_path=["../src"]``.

.. _validating-environment-for-prediction:

Validating Environment for Prediction
-------------------------------------

Validating your model before deployment is a critical step to ensure production readiness.
MLflow provides a few ways to test your model locally, either in a virtual environment or a Docker container.
If you find any dependency issues during validation, please follow the guidance in :ref:`How to fix dependency errors when serving my model? <how-to-fix-dependency-errors-in-model>`

Testing offline prediction with a virtual environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can use MLflow **predict** API via CLI or Python to make test predictions with your model.

Reviewer: Can we specify that this is the MLflow **Models** predict API and also mention which version of MLflow this is available in (as it's so new, users who haven't upgraded yet might want to use it, only to find that it doesn't exist in their version of the client)

This will load your model from the model URI, create a virtual environment with the model dependencies (defined in MLflow Model),
and run offline predictions with the model.

> Please refer to :py:func:`mlflow.models.predict` or `CLI reference <../cli.html#mlflow-models>`_ for more detailed usage for the predict API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to :py:func:`mlflow.models.predict` or the `CLI reference <../cli.html#mlflow-models>`_ for more detailed usage for the predict API.
```

.. tabs::

    .. code-tab:: bash

        mlflow models predict -m runs:/<run_id>/model-i <input_path>

    .. code-tab:: python

        import mlflow

        mlflow.models.predict(
            model_uri="runs:/<run_id>/model",
            input_data=<input_data>,
        )

Using the ``mlflow models predict`` API is convenient for testing your model and inference environment quickly.
However, it may not be a perfect simulation of the serving because it does not start the online inference server.

Testing online inference endpoint with a virtual environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you want to test your model by actually running the online inference server, you can use MLflow `serve` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to test your model by actually running the online inference server, you can use the  MLflow `serve` API.
```

This will create a virtual environment with your model and dependencies, similarly to the `predict` API, but will start the inference server
and expose the REST endpoints. Then you can send a test request and validate the response.

> Please refer to `CLI reference <../cli.html#mlflow-models>`_ for more detailed usage for the `serve` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to the `CLI reference <../cli.html#mlflow-models>`_ for more detailed usage for the `serve` API.
```

.. code-block:: bash

    mlflow models serve -m runs:/<run_id>/model -p <port>
    # In another terminal
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        --data '{"inputs": [[1, 2], [3, 4]]}' \
        http://localhost:<port>/invocations

While this is a reliable way to test your model before deployment, one caveat is that the virtual environment doesn't absorb the OS-level differences
between your machine and the production environment. For example, if you are using MacOS as a local dev machine but your deployment target is

> running on Linux, you may encounter some issues that are not reproducible in the virtual environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
running on a Linux virtual environment, you may encounter some issues that are not reproducible in the virtual environment.
```

Author: this is not necessarily a virtual environment - like EC2, k8s cluster on on-premise Linux machines, etc:)

Reviewer: ah, good point!

In this case, you can use a Docker container to test your model. While it doesn't provide full OS-level isolation unlike virtual machines e.g. we
can't run Windows containers on Linux machines, Docker covers some popular test scenarios such as running different versions of Linux or simulating

> Linux environment on Mac/Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linux environments on Mac or Windows.
```

Testing online inference endpoint with a Docker container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> MLflow `build-docker` API for CLI and Python, which builds an Ubuntu-based Docker image for serving your model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow `build-docker` API for CLI and Python is capable of building an Ubuntu-based Docker image for serving your model.
```

> The image will contain your model and dependencies and has an entrypoint to start the inference server. Similarly to the `serve` API,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image will contain your model and dependencies, as well as having an entrypoint that is used to start the inference server. Similarly to the `serve` API,
```

you can send a test request and validate the response.

> Please refer to `CLI reference <../cli.html#mlflow-models>`_ for more detailed usage for the `build-docker` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to the `CLI reference <../cli.html#mlflow-models>`_ for more detailed usage for the `build-docker` API.
```

.. code-block:: bash

    mlflow models build-docker -m runs:/<run_id>/model -n <image_name>
    docker run -p <port>:8080 <image_name>
    # In another terminal
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
        --data '{"inputs": [[1, 2], [3, 4]]}' \
        http://localhost:<port>/invocations

.. _model-dependencies-troubleshooting:

Troubleshooting
---------------

.. _how-to-fix-dependency-errors-in-model:

How to fix dependency errors when serving my model?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> One common issue during model deployment is dependency issue. When logging/saving your model, MLflow tries to infer the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most common issues experienced during model deployment centers around dependency issues. When logging or saving your model, MLflow tries to infer the
```

> model dependencies and save them as part of the MLflow Model metadata. However, this inference is not always accurate and may

Reviewer: I'd say that the implication here might be a bit off the mark. The inference is accurate in the sense that we capture the correct versions of packages. The issue can be that the set of requirements is not **complete** due to how package dependencies can be defined within certain libraries (local imports, [extras] requirements that aren't inferred properly for completeness. 
I would adjust this a bit to avoid saying that it's not 'accurate', but instead state that it's potentially not 'complete'.

Author: Totally agree, my brain started to type "accurate/cy" when seeing word "inference":p

> miss some dependencies. This can cause errors when serving your model, such as "ModuleNotFoundError" or "ImportError". Here 
> is the steps to fix missing dependencies error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
miss some dependencies. This can cause errors when serving your model, such as "ModuleNotFoundError" or "ImportError". Below 
are some steps that can help to diagnose and fix missing dependency errors.
```

1. Check the missing dependencies
*********************************
The missing dependencies are listed in the error message. For example, if you see the following error message:

.. code-block:: bash

    ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'cv2'

2. Try adding the dependencies using the `predict` API
******************************************************
Now that you know the missing dependencies, you can create a new model version with the correct dependencies.
However, creating a new model for trying new dependencies might be a bit tedious, particularly because you may need to
iterate multiple times to find the correct solution. Instead, you can use the `predict` API to test your change without

> actually mutating the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actually needing to re-log the model repeatedly while troubleshooting the installation errors.
```

Please note that **it is not recommended to edit these files manually** to add or remove dependencies.
They are automatically generated by MLflow and any change you make manually will be overwritten when you save the model again.
Instead, you should use one of the recommended methods described in the following sections.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following shows an example of environment files generated by MLflow when logging a model with ``mlflow.sklearn.log_model``:

* ``python_env.yaml``

  .. code-block:: yaml

      python: 3.9.8
      build_dependencies:
      - pip==23.3.2
      - setuptools==69.0.3
      - wheel==0.42.0
      dependencies:
      - -r requirements.txt

* ``requirements.txt``

  .. code-block:: text

      mlflow==2.9.2
      scikit-learn==1.3.2
      cloudpickle==3.0.0

* ``conda.yaml``

  .. code-block:: yaml

      name: mlflow-env
      channels:
        - conda-forge
      dependencies:
      - python=3.9.8
      - pip
      - pip:
        - mlflow==2.9.2
        - scikit-learn==1.3.2
        - cloudpickle==3.0.0

Adding Extra Dependencies to an MLflow Model
--------------------------------------------

> MLflow detects dependencies required for the model flavor library, but your model may depend on other libraries e.g. data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MLflow infers dependencies required for the model flavor library, but your model may depend on other libraries e.g. data
```

I think `infer` is more accurate.

.. code-block:: yaml

    mlflow==2.9.2
    cloudpickle==3.0.0
    pandas==2.0.3  # added

In this case, MLflow will install Pandas 2.0.3 in addition to the inferred dependencies when serving the model for prediction.

.. note::

    Once you log the model with dependencies, it is advisable to test it in a sandbox environment to avoid any dependency
    issues when deploying the model to production. Since MLflow 2.10.0, you can use the ``mlflow.models.predict`` API to quickly test
    your model in a virtual environment. Please refer to :ref:`Validating Environment for Prediction <validating-environment-for-prediction>` for more details.

Defining All Dependencies by Yourself
-------------------------------------

Alternatively, you can also define all dependencies from scratch rather than adding extra ones. To do so,
specify **pip_requirements** when logging the model. For example,

.. code-block:: python

    import mlflow

    # Log the model
    with mlflow.start_run() as run:
        mlflow.sklearn.log_model(
            sk_model=model,
            artifact_path="model",

>             extra_pip_requirements=[

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            pip_requirements=[
```

Author: ouch, great catch!

                "mlflow-skinny==2.9.2",
                "cloudpickle==2.5.8",

>                 "sklearn==1.3.1",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                f"sklearn=={sklearn.__version__}",
```

this might be more realistic.

Reviewer 2: Never mind. Hardcoding the version should be fine. This is just an example.

            ],
        )

The manually defined dependencies will override the default ones MLflow detects from the model flavor library:

.. code-block:: yaml

    mlflow-skinny==2.9.2
    cloudpickle==2.5.8

>     sklearn==1.3.1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    scikit-learn==1.3.1
```

`sklearn` is a module name, not a package name.

.. warning::

>     Please be careful when declaring core dependencies that are different from those used during training, as it can be dangerous

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Please be careful when declaring dependencies that are different from those used during training, as it can be dangerous
```

I'd remove `core` because it sounds like there are non-core dependencies.
